Well, God bless all of you.
Again, it is a joy to be with you.
We are headed to the book of Jonah this morning.
Jonah is one of our Old Testament minor prophets.
And I think I said this one time before about Jonah.
For him being a minor prophet, he certainly had a major story to tell.
And so I'm excited about this.
We're going to be in Jonah chapter three today, verses one to 10.
And we'll go there in just a minute, but you can turn there if you would.
But as I've studied the book of Jonah over the years, I've found that the more than I study it,
The more that I see comparisons in the life of Jonah to us today as we live our normal lives, whatever we call normal, as we live our daily lives, might be a better selection of words.
But to a certain degree, I believe that that's the truth.
And most of us here today claim to be Christians, but a lot like Jonah, we might not always be obedient to the Lord.
Amen.
Sometimes that happens sometimes we are sometimes we aren't sometimes we attempt to make our own way through life and I did a message on Jonah back in September or October of last year and it was titled the hard way and a lot of times we do things the hard way
way don't we a lot of times we're just like Jonah we know that God promises to execute his plan in our lives we have no doubt that he says that he will do that but we often resist only to find out later that it should have been us who was following God's plan after all amen we should be doing that so if there was ever a single book that described the Christian life
The book of Jonah would be an expert on this subject.
Jonah covers everything from rebellion to redemption, covers anger to instruction, and about just about everything in between.
So if you found your place, I'm going to ask you to stand.
We're going to unpack these few verses here in chapter three, and it tells us about the marvel of an undeserved assignment.
How many of us believe we've had an undeserved assignment in our lives at times?
Certainly we have.
So let's read Jonah chapter three, verses one to 10.
Here's what the word of God says.
Then the word of the Lord came to Jonah a second time.
You'll remember the first part of the story comes a second time.
Go to the great city of Nineveh and proclaim to it the message I give you.
Jonah obeyed the word of the Lord and went to Nineveh.
Now Nineveh was a very large city and it took three days to go through it.
Jonah began by going a day's journey into the city proclaiming, four day more days and Nineveh will be overthrown.
The Ninevice believed God and a fast was proclaimed and all of them from the greatest to the least put on Sackloth.
When Jonah's warning reached the king of Nineveh, he rose from his throne.
took off his royal robe, covered himself with sackcloth and sat down in the dust.
This is the proclamation he issued in Nineveh.
By the decree of the king and his nobles, do not let people or animals, herds or flocks taste anything.
Do not let them eat or drink, but let people and animals be covered with sackcloth.
Let everyone call urgently on God.
Let them give up their evil ways and their violence.
Who knows?
God may yet relent and with compassion turn from his fierce anger so that we will not perish.
Verse 10 says, when God saw what they had done and how they turned from their evil ways, he relented.
And he did not bring on them the destruction he had threatened.
So let's pray over this this morning as we begin.
Father, thank you once again for this passage that we have.
And Lord, we're just familiar with this story of Jonah.
So we just pray, Father, that you will reveal something to us today as we live our daily lives, Lord, that we should be better at or something that we know that we should be doing.
Follow something that will glorify you through it.
So Lord, thank you for this passage of scripture.
We know, Lord, that there are words there for us today.
So we just ask that you take them and use them in a mighty way.
In the name of Jesus, we pray, amen.
You may be seated.
Thank you.
You know, many times I think the question has been asked this way, was the great fish more relieved to get Jonah, to get rid of Jonah or was Jonah relieved to get rid of the great fish?
You ever thought about that from that standpoint?
There was a sense of relief, I'm sure, mutually to some degree between this great fish and between our prophet.
Jonah, hopefully Jonah was thankful to the Lord for providing this great fish for a saving grace.
And we know the story there.
You know, in my personal opinion, I will tell you this and I try not to pass too many opinions from here.
We stay in the word of God, but I believe that God created this great fish just for this purpose.
I don't know that this great fish even existed before Jonah was thrown overboard.
So I believe that this great fish was there for this specific purpose.
This fish certainly rescued him from what would have been his sure death.
The purpose before this shows this great fish, or the promise before this shows this great fish spewing Jonah into dry land.
We know this from reading the previous scriptures.
Now, if you ever wondered if possibly there was someone standing on the bank that day, they possibly saw what happened.
Bible doesn't tell us this.
We don't know.
We've been watching the chosen.
There's a lot of speculation that's thrown in there with some things that we don't have a complete record.
We know what God wants us to know.
But it's possible somebody could have been there to witness it.
So if this story, if that had happened, this story would have spread more rapidly and possibly even made it to Nineveh before Jonah actually was able to go through the gates of Nineveh.
And this can actually explain the reception that he was given by these people of Nineveh when you think of it this way.
The New Testament in the Gospel of Matthew points us to Jonah being a sign to the Ninevites.
You remember reading that passage of Scripture.
Turn with me there.
It's chapter 12 of Matthew.
We're going to look at this.
It's verses 38 to 41.
I'll give you just a second to turn there.
Gospel of Matthew gives us a lot to say about this.
Again, it's verses chapter 12, verses 38 to 41, having on the screen for you.
Here's what it says.
Then some of the Pharisees and teachers of the law said to him, teacher, we want to see a sign from you.
And he answered a wicked and adulterous generation asked for a sign, but none will be given except the sign of the prophet of Jonah.
First Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of a huge fish.
So the Son of Man will be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.
The men of Nineveh will stand up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it.
But they repented at the preaching of Jonah and now something greater than Jonah is here.
Now, if you read that passage, you'll know that Jesus here is teaching on his death, his burial, his resurrection.
We know this.
And by using the truth here of Jonah's journey to reiterate that.
But it makes me wonder though, why was this sign
that Matthew was referring to.
Was this a physical sign?
Was it a spiritual sign?
And from being in the belly of a fish for three days, had Jonah's appearance, you know, had it changed?
He was inside of a fish.
So has his appearance
change.
Some commentary suggests that the appearance had changed in some way.
And if this is true, you know, could the Ninevites have had any doubt about who he was and the story that he was circulating, his appearance could have dictated that for him.
But in reality, these questions at the end of the day, they really just don't matter, do they?
They really don't.
It doesn't matter what the people saw.
It doesn't matter what the people thought.
That just was not important.
But what was important was what God thought and what God would do next with Jonah, who was now his repented prophet.
He wasn't just a prophet.
He had now repented of what he had done.
Spurgeon said it this way.
He said, the life of Jonah cannot be written without God.
Amen.
You take God out of this prophet's history, then there's no history to write.
This comes from Charles Spurgeon.
This morning in the couple of verses, the first couple of verses here, chapter three, I believe that we can see a few things.
There are about four things that we can help better understand this undeserved commission, this undeserved assignment that Jonah received.
First, we know that God met with Jonah.
He met him there.
He don't exactly know what the fish left Jonah, but wherever it was, we can rest assured as God was already there.
He was already there standing on that bank.
Jonah had just experienced this most traumatic event of his life and he had all but just slipped away, but God was there.
But as Jonah stood on the seashore that day, God showed up.
God was concerned about his prophet.
He was concerned about his worker in the faith.
God was more concerned about his worker in the faith than he was the actual work itself.
Amen?
If the workers are what they ought to be, listen, and this goes for us today, if the workers are what they ought to be, if you and I are what we ought to be, then the work will take care of itself.
Throughout Jonah's rebellious time, God was certainly displeased with him.
Think about these parallels.
God was certainly displeased with him and we know because God disciplines those he loves, he does the same for us but just like Jonah, he didn't desert Jonah and he will never desert us.
The book of Jonah has a huge, there's a huge storm that came up this great fish and it was God who controlled all of those things.
God was in total control.
Not one time did God ever desert Jonah.
He was right there with him through it all.
Now, was it painful for Jonah?
Well, I feel like it most certainly probably was very difficult time for him.
Did Jonah feel helpless and hopeless?
Feel certain that he most likely did.
Did Jonah's life change through this experience?
Definitely it did.
Most are so much here that we can identify with isn't there.
Some of us are going through spiritual and emotional storms in our lives even right now that are so strong that we don't know how or if it will ever end.
And I read our prayer requests that we have.
I read them every week and there are just so many burdens that we bear just from reading these
pieces of paper my heart goes out to all of you who use those.
These circumstances in our lives are so consuming that sometimes we can't even focus on anything else.
We've trapped ourselves at times inside our own trials and we can't see God anywhere.
You ever felt like that?
We might ask God, hey, God, are you there?
I can't see you, Lord.
I don't feel your presence.
I know you said you'd never leave me or forsake me, but Lord, where are you?
You ever felt this way?
Church, I can tell you this.
I can tell you this right now today.
God is right here with each and every one of us.
He has not left us.
Isaiah 43.2 says this.
It says, he hasn't forgot about us.
It says, when you pass through the waters, what does he say?
I will be with you.
When you pass through the rivers, what does he say?
They will not sweep over you.
When you walk through the fire, you will not be burned.
The flames will not set you ablaze.
And I got to thinking about this as I was writing.
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, they had confidence that God would be with them in the fire.
And what happened?
God showed up.
And He does every time.
Folks, listen, there is nowhere that you can go that God isn't already there.
Nowhere.
Maybe right now, today, you're going through the most traumatic experience of your life.
Listen, whatever your circumstances are today, like Jonah, God is meeting you there.
He's taking care of you.
You are His worker.
His work through you will make a difference not only in your life, but in the lives of many others.
God is there.
He met Jonah.
He will meet us.
We also know this morning that God spoke to Jonah.
You know, after the way Jonah had been so stubborn, refusing to obey the Lord, it's a wonder that God even spoke to him at all.
Jonah has turned his back on God.
So God spoke to him through this thunder and this rain, this great storm.
But now that Jonah had confessed our sins, God changed his delivery message.
Or the way that he delivered it, he changed it to talking to him through his word.
I noticed this, I thought it was important to mention that we leave verse 10 of chapter one and immediately going into verse one of chapter two, God spoke to Jonah.
The word of the Lord came to him.
This was the second time that the Lord would address him about going to Nineveh.
I can only imagine this conversation.
Perhaps it went something like this.
Okay, Jonah, let's give this another try.
Are you ready now?
I chose Nineveh as your destination, not Tarshish, where you said you wanted to go.
So Jonah, let me ask you, what's it going to be?
Where are we going?
Jonah, you do realize what the last few days of your life has been all about, don't you?
Does God sometimes have conversations like this with us?
What's it going to be, Steve?
What are we doing today?
Don't you realize this is what I'm telling you to do?
A great test for us as Christians is, are we having these types of conversations in our lives?
is our relationship with the Lord, one of which we can actually hold a conversation with Him.
Are we hearing what it is that He has to say to us?
Are we reading?
Are we studying the Word of the Lord and is God speaking to us through that?
If we're not hearing the voice of God, perhaps there's something that is prohibiting you from hearing His voice.
Perhaps you have some unfinished business like Jonah that needs to be addressed and settled.
Hearing the voice of God is essential to the Christian life.
We have to tune it in.
We tune it in through His Word.
We tune it in by listening to His beck and call.
God gave Jonah a second chance.
Amen.
He gives us second chances.
But he reiterated the assignment.
He gave him an opportunity for a new beginning.
And our line says, Christians, listen, I don't know if you know this about your life, but your life is a series of new beginnings in the Lord.
Every day we get a second chance.
God gives us chance after chance, after chance to infinity.
Aren't you glad we serve a God of a second chance?
Amen.
We see throughout the entire Bible that God forgives his servants and then he continues to use that same servant.
What was lost in sin, but Jesus took me in.
That's how he uses us.
Some of the greatest testimonies have come from some of the toughest trials.
Let me give you a couple of examples.
Abraham, you remember him?
Well, he fled to Egypt where he lied about his wife, but God gave him another chance to remember the story.
Jake lied to his father, Isaac, but God restored him and used him to build the nation of Israel.
Moses killed a man fled from Egypt, but God called him to be the leader of his people.
What about Peter in the New Testament?
He denied Christ three times, but Jesus forgave it, said, follow me.
I have a burden for pastors.
Perhaps you do too.
I've heard that they have left the ministry because of some sort of sin in their life and their disobedience.
They've made mistakes that they feel like have just ruined
their ministry.
They lead the ministry because they feel that their mistakes have gone far beyond any type of repair.
They feel as if no one would ever take them seriously again because they feel tainted.
There's certainly no excuse for sin and we know that pastors and teachers of the word are held to a higher standard in that regard.
We know this.
There's no room for sin in our lives.
We don't get do overs.
We don't have an undo button.
So it's good that we have a gracious God.
He's who we need.
Only God should remove us from a ministry.
It should be His call to change the ministry or leave it all together.
I had a pastor a few years ago that came to me.
He told me, he said, Steve, I need to talk to somebody.
We began to talk.
And he said, my son, my oldest son and his girlfriend are going to be parents.
I said, oh, my goodness.
I hate to hear that.
And he said, I believe that I failed in this matter.
And I believe that it's time that I resigned from the ministry because of his sin.
And I asked him a question.
It's just us.
I'll tell you.
I said, brother, let me ask you this.
Did you teach your child the ways of the Bible?
Yes, I did.
I said, were you there at the time that they decided to make this sin?
He said, well, no, I wasn't there.
I said, well, why do you need to leave the ministry?
But he was sent and ready because of the sin of someone else.
And I understand his heartbreak.
I understand what he was going through in that particular time.
But that's something that God needed to call him to do.
Not because of something that someone else even did.
There's nothing soft about sin, we know that.
the person or the pastor that says, I can go ahead and sin, because I know the Lord will forgive me, has no understanding of how devastating the result of sin can be.
They're disregarding the holiness of God.
Sin, listen, sin is serious, amen?
I've heard messages about that, it's titled that way.
Sin is serious, and it should never be taken lightly by a pastor or by anyone else, but God in His grace
will deliver us from the sin if we are willing to confess it and turn from it.
There are consequences, though, that we have to deal with.
Consequences of the sin.
The Scriptures tell us there where you're going to reap what you sow.
We know this.
Well, speaking of Jonah, he paid dearly for his rebellion.
He got swallowed by a fish.
But the first thing that God said to him
was go to Nineveh.
The mission had not changed.
God's plan for Jonah was still in effect.
There was no variance to the command.
God's intention for Jonah before the sin.
God's intention for Jonah through the sin.
And God's intention for Jonah after the forgiveness of sin was the same.
Not that Jonah deserved it.
because he didn't.
He didn't deserve this assignment.
His actions by running from God by all accounts should have disqualified him from being able to serve the Lord.
This just didn't how God works.
His purpose was for Jonah to go to Nineveh and do something.
He needed to go there and preach the message that God had given him to preach.
Jonah received a second chance.
Well, he's not the only one.
So did the people of Nineveh.
They did as well.
So folks, let me say today, maybe you've fallen so far into your sin that you feel like that any ministry you may have had is over.
Perhaps you see yourself so tainted that you can't forgive yourself, much less ask God to forgive you.
You're feeling today because of your sin and because of your circumstances.
You could never lead other people into things of Christ.
Listen, know this today.
God's plan for you hasn't changed.
His mission for you is the same as it was yesterday, today and forever.
God has a plan for you.
Now we don't know completely what his mission is.
He may change some varying things around it, but he reveals it to us as we need to see it.
If you have sin in your life, listen, it's time to ask forgiveness and get on about the business of God.
Put it behind you.
He's not through with you.
He wants you to use, he wants to use you and he wants you to make a difference for the kingdom of God.
Jesus says in the Gospel of Luke chapter 15,
Verse seven, it says this, and I love this verse of scripture.
Songs written about it.
There's more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 righteous persons who have not strayed away.
What a blessing that is for all of us.
Amen.
Will you be that one today that wipes the slate clean with God?
Do you need to be clean in front of God?
Wipe the slate clean.
Will you be that one today who refocuses on this mission that God has called you to?
My prayers that you will be willing to do that.
Well, finally, God also challenged Jonah.
This was to be a great challenge for Jonah.
Nineveh was the capital of Assyria.
This is the most cruel nation on earth.
their biggest enemies were the Assyrians.
Jonah had some obstacles ahead of him as he would witness to these people.
There was a language barrier for one.
He didn't know a soul there.
Another part of the challenge was that it was going to take Jonah the better part of a month to even make the trip to where he had to go to get to Nineveh.
So Jonah knew that once he arrived in Nineveh, there would be difficulty.
Four times in the book of Jonah, we see the city of Ninephar referred to as something is called the great city.
This is well deserved for several reasons.
First of all, it was founded by a guy named Nimrod.
You remember him in ancient times.
He was the grandson of Noah.
This city was very large.
The map tells us that the circumference of the city was approximately 60 miles.
There would have been 600,000 or more inhabitants of that city.
Huge.
This great city was a huge power of the Assyrian Empire.
It had a water source from the Tigris River.
But Nineveh had a problem.
It was consumed in sin.
The Assyrians were known for their violence.
This was not a good mixture.
They were ruthless in the way that they would commit these ruthless acts.
They didn't respect anyone.
And if you take a look at the Old Testament prophet Nahum in verse 3, verse 10, these same people would kill the babies into small children just so they wouldn't have to take care of them.
It was that type of place.
This was the most wicked of wicked cities.
This is where God wanted Jonah to go.
He was a prophet going one man going into a city of 600,000 to preach to them.
But God was assuring him that he would give him the message to speak.
Through this month of travel time, Jonah would have plenty of time to gain God's instruction and meditate on what God had taught him.
God was at work in this wicked city and he wanted Jonah there.
The city of Nineveh figured greatly into God's plan.
And Jonah was going to be a big part of it, whether he wanted to or not.
So folks, let me ask you this this morning.
Where's your Nineveh?
Is God challenging you this way?
Is he calling you to a task that just like Jonah, you just, you just don't really want to tackle this.
You don't feel like you're up to the task.
Like Nineveh is aching South Carolina, a big part of God's plan.
Maybe today you know where or who your calling is for.
And when you take a look at this calling that God has on your lives, the only part that you can see is the negative part.
Maybe the enormity of this mission that God has called you to is something that you're humbled by, something that you don't feel like you have the capacity to do.
You're overwhelmed by it.
Maybe if you're like me sometimes, maybe you feel like, you know, I just don't have the energy to tackle this.
Don't have the energy.
Listen, folks, hear this.
The will of God will never lead you where the grace of God can't keep you and the power of God can't use you.
always there.
So where does our sufficiency come from?
Does it come from us?
Doesn't come from our family members?
Our sufficiency doesn't come from mom and daddy.
Doesn't come from Uncle Bill and Aunt June.
Only comes from God.
All that we need comes from him.
He's not going to lead you into something.
that He's not willing to help you with.
Remember when you arrive like Jonah on the bank of that ocean that day, God's already there.
He's already there waiting for you.
He's already preparing your way as you move through the will of God.
He will never leave you or forsake you.
pray this morning that you're listening to the call of God and that you're willing to serve Him.
Every head bowed, every eye closed.
This morning as you ponder this, my prayer for you is that you are first of all a willing vessel.
that has an attitude and a desire to not only follow the Lord but serve Him diligent.
Something else that I would pray for you on is that there are things in your life that are keeping you from serving Him the way that you know that He wants you to, sin, family issues,
There are 100 things we could name off in just short order.
That are things that would qualify as the entrance of keeping us from doing what God wants us to do.
You only need one reason to do what he's asking.
And that's because he's the one that's asking.
So where are you today, Christian?
Where are you today, church?
Are you willing to be a servant that God has called you to be?
Are you willing to stand in the fire for Him?
I pray that you are.
If you're here today and you don't know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, my prayer for you today is a prayer that I pray every day for you.
That you will come to know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior.
lead to the cross without Jesus we can do nothing.
So my prayer today is that you know Him.
Not only the head knowledge but the heart knowledge that you have a relationship with Him.
Our altar is open this morning.
We've utilized it this morning.
I'd love to see it full again today.
If you feel led to do that then I would ask you to come.
like me to pray with you come and take me by the hand and I will pray with you.
Let's stand to our feet and you come.
This is the Lord who leads you this morning.
people said amen thank you so much for being here today don't forget tonight 515 choir 630 we'll be doing the chosen back in the youth room again tonight and we also have a short business conference here for just a few minutes this morning thank you for joining us today on the podcast and learning God's word together at Cornerstone Baptist Church to find out more about how to have a personal walk with Jesus
Check out the contact page on our website at cbcakin.com.
We'd love to have you visit us at 100 Cornerstone Drive, Akin, South Carolina.
You're always welcome.
Don't hesitate to reach out.
God bless you and have a wonderful day.